<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?>
<rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
  <channel>
    <title>Updates on dotJAR - Development Blog</title>
    <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/updates/</link>
    <description>Recent content in Updates on dotJAR - Development Blog</description>
    <generator>Hugo</generator>
    <language>en-US</language>
    <lastBuildDate>Thu, 03 Apr 2025 09:51:27 +0000</lastBuildDate>
    <atom:link href="https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/updates/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml" />
    <item>
      <title>Client and SAML2</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/client-and-saml2/</link>
      <pubDate>Thu, 03 Apr 2025 09:51:27 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/client-and-saml2/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Client and SAML2&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;br&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;meeting-summary&#34;&gt;Meeting Summary&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;On April 3, the team met with the client to discuss the SAML2 authentication integration. We asked a series of technical questions to clarify the requirements and ensure that everything was aligned. With their guidance, Jael Gonzalez was able to successfully implement the SAML2 authentication into the platform. The following key points were discussed:&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Client Meeting&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ We met with the client to go over the technical aspects of the SAML2 integration.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;SAML2 Authentication&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ After thorough discussion and clarification of the technical details, the team successfully got the SAML2 authentication working on the platform.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Development Progress&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Members continued working on their respective parts, making good progress. Each module is moving forward as planned.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;meeting-schedule&#34;&gt;Meeting Schedule&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Date: [04/03/2025]&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Time: 2:30pm&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Location: In Person, CTI office&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;attendees&#34;&gt;Attendees&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Angel Aquino&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Jael Gonzalez&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Ramon Rosario&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Andres Rosado&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;agenda--discussion&#34;&gt;Agenda &amp;amp; Discussion&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;SAML2 Authentication&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Finalizing the implementation after meeting with the client and addressing all questions.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Client Feedback&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ The client provided guides to ensure proper integration of auth.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Team Progress&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ The team members continue to make good progress on their respective parts, with most tasks on track.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;tasks&#34;&gt;Tasks&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;SAML2 Integration&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Ensure that the authentication system is fully implemented and integrated with the platform.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Development Work&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Continue working on individual modules, focusing on completing the remaining tasks efficiently.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;next-meeting&#34;&gt;Next Meeting&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Date: 04/07/2025&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Gantt Chart Rework and Process Discussion</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/gantt-chart-rework-and-process-discussion/</link>
      <pubDate>Tue, 18 Mar 2025 09:19:38 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/gantt-chart-rework-and-process-discussion/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Gantt Chart Rework and Process Discussion&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;br&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;meeting-summary&#34;&gt;Meeting Summary&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;In todayâ€™s meeting, the team discussed the challenges with the current Gantt chart, particularly its waterfall structure, however, a gantt chart is required for the project.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Gantt Chart Rework&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ The Gantt chart was restructured with the provided feedback, but its waterfall nature is still limiting the flexibility required for this project.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Ongoing Development&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Despite these process challenges, the team continues to develop their respective parts, focusing on the completion of their individual modules.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;meeting-schedule&#34;&gt;Meeting Schedule&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Date: [03/18/2025]&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Time: 8:30pm - 10:30pm&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Location: Online&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;attendees&#34;&gt;Attendees&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Angel Aquino&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Jael Gonzalez&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Ramon Rosario&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;agenda--discussion&#34;&gt;Agenda &amp;amp; Discussion&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Rework of Gantt Chart&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Discussed the limitations of the waterfall structure and agreed that it was impeding progress in certain areas.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Waterfall Challenges&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ The waterfall approach was seen as problematic, with issues arising from strict task sequencing and lack of flexibility.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Development Progress&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ The team members continue to work on their parts, with a focus on completing key development tasks.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;tasks&#34;&gt;Tasks&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Gantt Chart Rework&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Continue to adjust and test the updated Gantt chart format while considering the transition to a Kanban chart.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;&lt;strong&gt;Task Development&lt;/strong&gt; â€“ Continue the development of individual modules with a focus on completing the backend and front-end components.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;next-meeting&#34;&gt;Next Meeting&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Date: 03/24/2025&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Continuation</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/continuation/</link>
      <pubDate>Sat, 15 Mar 2025 08:45:20 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/continuation/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Continuing The Progress&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;br&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;meeting-summary&#34;&gt;Meeting Summary&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;The team continues to have daily meetings and working on the progress report. There&amp;rsquo;s some delay on the backend, however, a new task has been created indicated &amp;lsquo;catching up&amp;rsquo; with the delayed tasks and continue to work smoothly. If the mentioned is not met, tasks will have to be shifted and fixed to accomodate to a new schedule.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;The team prepares for the Happy Hour Oral Exam.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Progress and Presentation</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/progress-and-presentation/</link>
      <pubDate>Sun, 09 Mar 2025 14:00:44 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/progress-and-presentation/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Progress, Report and Presentaiton&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;meeting-summary&#34;&gt;Meeting Summary&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;In this meeting multiple updates were given and reported, as well as continuing to work in the progress report 1 and its presentaiton.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;All the tasks related to the front-end were completed, including wireframes, a site map, and the componenets to be used. Development of the HTML and CSS implenention was about to start.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;The tasks related to the database were completed, a schema of the tables and the Entety Relation Diagram were completed.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;The front end was reported to be behind. This was hugely due to technical debt, in other words, the amount of time required to develop expertise in this area was longer than expected, and thus the design for route and controllers was behind.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Other than this, the members continued to work on the progress report and the presentation.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Client Meeting</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/client-meeting/</link>
      <pubDate>Fri, 07 Mar 2025 09:19:38 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/client-meeting/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Client Meeting&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;br&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;meeting-summary&#34;&gt;Meeting Summary&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Every thursday the team members have a meeting with the clients regarding updates and status, particularly important information was discusssed in this meeting:&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;The wireframes were shown to the client&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;The client provided information on the tools, in this case specifically kits and libraries, used for the&#xA;integration of the authentication used in UPRM.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;meeting-schedule&#34;&gt;Meeting Schedule&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Date: [03/07/2025]&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Time: 10:30am - 12pm&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Location: In Person, CTI office&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;attendees&#34;&gt;Attendees&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Angel Aquino&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Jael Gonzalez&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Ramon Rosario&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Martin Menendex&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Andres Rosado&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h3 id=&#34;agenda--discussion&#34;&gt;Agenda &amp;amp; Discussion&lt;/h3&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;The addition of letter generation -&amp;gt; It was determined the platform will include a system to automatically generate (using a template) the approval cards for associations.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Two new dependices -&amp;gt; It was determined that the laravel\breeze kit will be used for scaffol and socialiteprovider\saml2 will be used for SAML2 integration.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;h2 id=&#34;next-meeting&#34;&gt;Next Meeting&lt;/h2&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Date: 03/09/2025&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Latest Meetings</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/latest-meetings/</link>
      <pubDate>Fri, 28 Feb 2025 11:23:19 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/latest-meetings/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Latest Meetings&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;br&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Since the team does daily meetings, it&amp;rsquo;s hard to keep track to the minute detail, however the following has happened:&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Had a meeting with the client were the topic of the SRS was talked about, as well as other topics.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;The SRS document was submitted by the group.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ol&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;From now on, we will follow the recommended template. However, the formatting is bound to change eventually for a cleaner look.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Reworking Meetings</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/reworking-meetings/</link>
      <pubDate>Thu, 27 Feb 2025 14:00:25 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/reworking-meetings/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Reworking Meetings Format&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Last week the team finish and submitted the proposal report.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;As per requirement from the course, a new structure for meetings will be implemented. The formating is the following:&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;pre tabindex=&#34;0&#34;&gt;&lt;code&gt;Meeting Summary&#xA;Date: [MM/DD/YYYY]&#xA;Time: [Start - End]&#xA;Location: [Physical/Virtual]&#xA;&#xA;Attendees&#xA;[Name 1], [Name 2], [Name 3], etc.&#xA;Agenda &amp;amp; Discussion&#xA;[Agenda Item 1] â€“ [Key points, decisions, action items]&#xA;[Agenda Item 2] â€“ [Key points, decisions, action items]&#xA;[Agenda Item 3] â€“ [Key points, decisions, action items]&#xA;Action Items&#xA;Task&#x9;Owner&#x9;Deadline&#xA;[Task 1]&#x9;[Person 1]&#x9;[MM/DD/YYYY]&#xA;[Task 2]&#x9;[Person 2]&#x9;[MM/DD/YYYY]&#xA;Next Meeting&#xA;Date/Time: [MM/DD/YYYY, HH:MM]&#xA;&lt;/code&gt;&lt;/pre&gt;&lt;p&gt;Given that the team has &lt;strong&gt;daily&lt;/strong&gt; meetings, the &lt;code&gt;updates&lt;/code&gt; of the blog will be uploaded daily.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Working the Proposal</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/working-the-proposal/</link>
      <pubDate>Thu, 13 Feb 2025 20:57:44 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/working-the-proposal/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Working on the Proposal&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;There&amp;rsquo;s not much update on the project itself. The team remain workings on the&#xA;proposal report.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Other than this the team has been looking into tools for designing Gantt charts&#xA;since OpenLibre seems old and clunky.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Also, the team has been learning about  &lt;em&gt;Laravel&lt;/em&gt; through&#xA;&lt;em&gt;&lt;a href=&#34;https://laracasts.com/&#34;&gt;Laracast&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/em&gt;, a website that goes from learning the most basic &lt;em&gt;PHP&lt;/em&gt; to complex topics and finally to the &lt;em&gt;Laravel&lt;/em&gt; framework.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;That&amp;rsquo;s all for now,&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>Finished Setup</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/finished-setup/</link>
      <pubDate>Thu, 13 Feb 2025 02:51:59 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/finished-setup/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;The Setup&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;br&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;After much work, the blog has finally been setup and hosted on GitHub Pages.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Here&amp;rsquo;s a brief update on the project&amp;rsquo;s progress so far:&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;Multiple meetings have been held with the clients.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;li&gt;An oral proposal presentation was delivered to the class.&lt;/li&gt;&#xA;&lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Moving forward, regular updates will be provided on important milestones and meetings.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;&lt;sub&gt; - dotJAR team ðŸ«™&lt;/sub&gt;&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
    <item>
      <title>The Beginning</title>
      <link>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/the-beginning/</link>
      <pubDate>Sun, 09 Feb 2025 21:28:55 +0000</pubDate>
      <guid>https://jael-g.github.io/dotJAR_devblog.github.io/the-beginning/</guid>
      <description>&lt;div id=&#34;update-title&#34;&gt;&#xA;  &lt;ul align=&#34;center&#34;&gt;&#xA;      &lt;h1&gt;Here we go!&lt;/h1&gt;&#xA;  &lt;/ul&gt;&#xA;&lt;/div&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;Initial post for dotJAR development blog.&lt;/p&gt;&#xA;&lt;p&gt;In this blog progress of the project will be continously posted.&lt;/p&gt;</description>
    </item>
  </channel>
</rss>
